








Best Investment Apps Of September 2024 – Forbes Advisor


 




















































					Select Region
				










United States










United Kingdom










Germany










India










Australia










Italy










Canada

































                    Credit Cards                








Credit Cards




                                    Credit Cards                                



                                        Best Credit Cards                                    



                                        Best Business Credit Cards                                    



                                        Best Travel Credit Cards                                    



                                        Best Cash Back Credit Cards                                    



                                        Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards                                    



                                        Best 0% APR Credit Cards                                    



                                        Best Student Credit Cards                                    



                                        Best No Annual Fee Credit Cards                                    



                                        Credit Card Comparison                                    




                                            Compare Credit Cards for Bad or No Credit                                            



                                                    Best First Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Secured Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Credit Cards For Bad Credit                                                

                                                    Best Credit Cards For No Credit                                                






                                            Compare More Travel & Rewards Cards                                            



                                                    Best Rewards Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Airline Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best No Foreign Transaction Fee Cards                                                

                                                    Best Credit Cards for International Travel                                                

                                                    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses                                                






                                            Compare More Business Cards                                            



                                                    Best 0% APR Business Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Cash Back Business Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Business Credit Cards For Startups                                                

                                                    Best Business Credit Cards For Travel                                                






                                            Credit Card Reviews                                            



                                                    Capital One Venture X                                                

                                                    Capital One Venture Rewards                                                

                                                    Wells Fargo Active Cash                                                

                                                    Chase Sapphire Preferred                                                

                                                    Chase Sapphire Reserve                                                

                                                    Chase Freedom Unlimited                                                

                                                    American Express Centurion Black Card                                                

                                                    American Express Platinum                                                

                                                    American Express Gold                                                

                                                    Discover it Student Cash Back                                                

                                                    Chase Ink Business Unlimited                                                

                                                    More Credit Card Reviews                                                






                                            Credit Cards By Issuer                                            



                                                    Best Wells Fargo Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best American Express Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Chase Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Capital One Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Discover Credit cards                                                





                                        Credit Card Expert Tips & Guides                                    







                    Loans                








Loans




                                    Loans                                




                                            Personal Loans                                            



                                                    Best Personal Loans                                                

                                                    Personal Loan Rates                                                

                                                    Best Online Personal Loans                                                

                                                    Best Debt Consolidation Loans                                                

                                                    Easiest Personal Loans To Get                                                

                                                    Best Loans for Bad Credit                                                

                                                    Best Emergency Loans                                                

                                                    Best Emergency Loans For Bad Credit                                                

                                                    Personal Loans With No Credit Check                                                

                                                    Best Low-Interest Personal Loans                                                

                                                    Best Personal Loans For Fair Credit                                                

                                                    Best Joint Personal Loans                                                






                                            Business Loans                                            



                                                    Best Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Business Lines Of Credit                                                

                                                    Best Startup Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Unsecured Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Quick Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Business Loans For Bad Credit                                                

                                                    How To Get a Business Loan                                                

                                                    How to Get a Startup Business Loan                                                

                                                    How To Get a Business Line of Credit                                                

                                                    Business Tax ID Number: How To Find EIN                                                






                                            Student Loans                                            



                                                    Best Student Loans                                                

                                                    Best Student Loan Interest Rates                                                

                                                    Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Low-Interest Student Loans                                                

                                                    Best International Student Loans                                                

                                                    Best Student Loans With No Cosigner                                                

                                                    Best Parent Loan For College                                                

                                                    Best Student Loans for Bad Credit                                                

                                                    Student Loan Forgiveness FAQs                                                






                                            Auto Loans                                            



                                                    Auto Loan Rates                                                

                                                    Auto Loan Refinance Rates                                                

                                                    Auto Loan Refinance Lenders                                                









                    Mortgages                








Mortgages




                                    Mortgages                                



                                        Best Mortgage Lenders                                    



                                        Best Mortgage Refinance Lenders                                    




                                            Compare More Home Buying Lenders                                            



                                                    Best Online Mortgage Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Mortgage Lenders for First-Time Homebuyers                                                

                                                    Best VA Loan Lenders                                                

                                                    Best USDA Mortgage Lenders                                                

                                                    Best FHA Loan Lenders                                                

                                                    Today's Mortgage Rates                                                

                                                    Best Construction Loan Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Reverse Mortgage Companies                                                

                                                    Best Mortgage Lenders with No Down Payment                                                






                                            Mortgage Rates                                            



                                                    Mortgage Interest Rates Forecast                                                

                                                    Current Mortgage Rates                                                

                                                    Today's Mortgage Refinance Rates                                                

                                                    Current Mortgage Refinance Rates                                                

                                                    Today’s VA Mortgage Rates                                                

                                                    Today’s VA Refinance Rates                                                






                                            HELOC & Home Equity Loans                                            



                                                    Best HELOC Rates                                                

                                                    Best HELOC Lenders                                                

                                                    HELOC Calculator                                                

                                                    Best Home Equity Loan Rates                                                

                                                    Best Home Equity Loan Lenders                                                

                                                    Home Equity Loan Calculator                                                






                                            Home Buying & Mortgage Calculators                                            



                                                    Mortgage Calculator by State                                                

                                                    Mortgage Refinance Calculator                                                

                                                    Mortgage Amortization Calculator                                                

                                                    Cash-Out Refinance Calculator                                                

                                                    How Much House Can I Afford? Calculator                                                





                                        Housing Market Predictions                                    







                    Banking                








Banking




                                    Banking                                



                                        Best High Yield Savings Accounts                                    



                                        Best CD Rates                                    



                                        Best Checking Accounts                                    



                                        Best Online Banks                                    



                                        Best Credit Unions                                    



                                        Best Budgeting Apps                                    



                                        Best Bank Bonuses & Promotions                                    



                                        Best Bank Accounts for Bad Credit                                    




                                            Business Banking                                            



                                                    Best Business Savings Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Business Checking Accounts                                                






                                            Compare More Savings & Money Market Accounts                                            



                                                    Best Money Market Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Savings Accounts For Kids                                                

                                                    Best Savings Accounts With Debit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Student Savings Accounts                                                






                                            Compare More Checking Accounts                                            



                                                    Best High Yield Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Teen Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Debit Cards For Teens                                                

                                                    Best Student Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Joint Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best No Fee Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Free Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Free Online Checking Accounts With No Opening Deposit                                                






                                            Compare More CD Rates                                            



                                                    CD Rates Today                                                

                                                    CD Interest Rates Forecast                                                

                                                    6 Month CD Rates                                                

                                                    1 Year CD Rates                                                

                                                    5 Year CD Rates                                                






                                            Bank Promotions & Bonuses                                            



                                                    US Bank Promotions                                                

                                                    Capital One Promotions                                                

                                                    Chase Promotions                                                

                                                    SoFi Promotions                                                

                                                    Discover Promotions                                                

                                                    Wells Fargo Checking Account Bonus                                                

                                                    Bank Of America Promotions                                                









                    Investing                








Investing




                                    Investing                                



                                        Financial Advisors                                    



                                        Best Online Brokers                                    



                                        Best Robo Advisors                                    



                                        Best Investment Apps                                    



                                        Best Stocks to Buy Now                                    




                                            Cryptocurrency                                            



                                                    Best Crypto Wallets                                                

                                                    Best Crypto Exchanges                                                

                                                    Top Cryptocurrencies                                                






                                            Compare More Investing Products                                            



                                                    Best Portfolio Management Software                                                

                                                    Best Investment Accounts for Kids                                                

                                                    Best Brokerage Accounts for Beginners                                                

                                                    Best Annuities                                                

                                                    Best Fixed Annuity Rates                                                






                                            Compare Retirement Accounts & Plans                                            



                                                    Best IRA Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Roth IRA                                                

                                                    Best 401k Plans                                                

                                                    Best Gold IRAs                                                





                                        Datalign Advisory | Paid Program                                    







                    Personal Finance                








Personal Finance





                                            Taxes                                            



                                                    Best Tax Software                                                

                                                    Best Tax Software For The Self-Employed                                                

                                                    Best Tax Software For Small Businesses                                                

                                                    Best Tax Apps                                                

                                                    Best Tax Relief Services                                                

                                                    Tax Brackets 2023-2024                                                

                                                    Income Tax Calculator                                                






                                            Debt Relief                                            



                                                    Best Debt Relief & Settlement Companies                                                

                                                    Accredited Debt Relief | Paid Program                                                






                                            Credit Score Repair & Monitoring                                            



                                                    Best Credit Repair Companies                                                

                                                    Best Credit Monitoring Services                                                






                                            Money Transfer                                            



                                                    Best Way to Send Money                                                

                                                    Currency Calculator                                                





                                        Best ID Theft Protection Services                                    







                    More from Forbes Advisor                








More from Forbes Advisor





                                            Car Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Car Insurance                                                

                                                    Cheap Car Insurance                                                

                                                    Compare Car Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    Car Insurance Calculator                                                

                                                    Cost Of Car Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Car Insurance In Florida                                                

                                                    Best Car Insurance In California                                                

                                                    Best Car Insurance In Texas                                                






                                            Travel Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Covid Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Cruise Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Cancel For Any Reason Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Is Travel Insurance?                                                

                                                    Cheap Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Travel Insurance & Destinations                                                






                                            Life Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Term Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Senior Life Insurance                                                

                                                    No-Exam Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Compare Life Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    How Much Is Life Insurance?                                                

                                                    Cheap Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Life Insurance Calculator                                                






                                            Homeowners Insurance                                            



                                                    Home Insurance Companies                                                

                                                    Compare Home Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    Home Insurance Calculator                                                

                                                    Average Cost Of Homeowners Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Home Insurance Do I Need?                                                






                                            Renters Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Renters Insurance                                                

                                                    Cheap Renters Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Is Renters Insurance?                                                






                                            Pet Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Pet Insurance                                                

                                                    Compare Pet Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    Is Pet Insurance Worth It In 2024?                                                

                                                    Cheap Pet Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Does Pet Insurance Cost?                                                

                                                    Pet Insurance Pre-Existing Conditions                                                






                                            Health Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Health Insurance Companies                                                

                                                    Best Short-Term Health Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Disability Insurance                                                

                                                    Health Insurance for Small Business                                                

                                                    Best Dental Insurance Companies                                                

                                                    Best Vision Insurance Companies                                                






                                            Business Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Small Business Insurance                                                

                                                    Best General Liability Insurance                                                

                                                    Commercial Auto Insurance                                                

                                                    Cyber Liability Insurance                                                

                                                    Business Interruption Insurance                                                











USA







UK





DE





IN





AU





IT





CA









USA
|
Change Region






Back to Forbes.com






USA







UK





DE





IN





AU





IT





CA









USA
|
Change Region






















 





 
 























You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website.























                    advisor                



                    Investing                



                    Best Investment Apps                



Advertiser Disclosure
 Updated: Aug 30, 2024, 3:20am    
 
Best Investment Apps Of September 2024


Rebecca BaldridgeInvesting WriterRebecca Baldridge, CFA, is an investment professional and financial writer with over 20 years' experience in the financial services industry. In addition to a decade in banking and brokerage in Moscow, she has worked for Franklin Templeton Asset Mana...See Full BioRebecca BaldridgeInvesting WriterRebecca Baldridge, CFA, is an investment professional and financial writer with over 20 years' experience in the financial services industry. In addition to a decade in banking and brokerage in Moscow, she has worked for Franklin Templeton Asset Mana...See Full BioWritten ByRebecca Baldridge Rebecca BaldridgeInvesting WriterRebecca Baldridge, CFA, is an investment professional and financial writer with over 20 years' experience in the financial services industry. In addition to a decade in banking and brokerage in Moscow, she has worked for Franklin Templeton Asset Mana...See Full BioRebecca BaldridgeInvesting WriterRebecca Baldridge, CFA, is an investment professional and financial writer with over 20 years' experience in the financial services industry. In addition to a decade in banking and brokerage in Moscow, she has worked for Franklin Templeton Asset Mana...See Full BioInvesting Writer Paul KatzeffInvesting EditorPaul Katzeff is an award-winning journalist who has written four books about how to grow your 401(k) retirement nest egg and one about internet investing. He has worked as a senior reporter/writer at Investor's Business Daily, a correspondent for Mon...See Full BioPaul KatzeffInvesting EditorPaul Katzeff is an award-winning journalist who has written four books about how to grow your 401(k) retirement nest egg and one about internet investing. He has worked as a senior reporter/writer at Investor's Business Daily, a correspondent for Mon...See Full BioPaul KatzeffPaul KatzeffInvesting EditorPaul Katzeff is an award-winning journalist who has written four books about how to grow your 401(k) retirement nest egg and one about internet investing. He has worked as a senior reporter/writer at Investor's Business Daily, a correspondent for Mon...See Full BioPaul KatzeffInvesting EditorPaul Katzeff is an award-winning journalist who has written four books about how to grow your 401(k) retirement nest egg and one about internet investing. He has worked as a senior reporter/writer at Investor's Business Daily, a correspondent for Mon...See Full BioReviewed|Investing Editor & 1 otherUpdated: Aug 30, 2024, 3:20am 

        Editorial Note: We earn a commission from partner links on Forbes Advisor. Commissions do not affect our editors' opinions or evaluations.     

Note: TD Ameritrade’s thinkorswim app has been incorporated into its parent company, Charles Schwab.
For those just getting started with investing, picking the right investment app is their second most important task, trailing only the choice of investments themselves. Just remember, the app that triggers the most headlines is not necessarily the best one for you. Determining which is best depends on your unique mix of needs, goals and timeframe.
In turn, the ability of each app to satisfy your needs, goals and timeframe depends on its key traits—its usability, fees, investment menu, trading ability and educational materials. To weigh those features, we analyzed hundreds of data points and conducted rigorous app trials. Now Forbes Advisor presents the best investment apps for a wide variety of specific types of investors.










                        Why you can trust Forbes Advisor
                    





Our editors are committed to bringing you unbiased ratings and information. Our editorial content is not influenced by advertisers. We use data-driven methodologies to evaluate financial products and companies, so all are measured equally. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the investing methodology for the ratings below.



20 investment apps reviewed
38 features analyzed
5 apps chosen







Read more







 


Best Ofs


Best Portfolio Management Apps


Best Online Brokerage Accounts


Best Robo Advisors


Best Crypto Exchanges


Best Crypto Wallets


Choosing A Financial Advisor














Show Summary



Best Investment Apps of September 2024


Binance.US


Betterment


TD Ameritrade’s thinkorswim


Fidelity Mobile


E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley


Summary: Best Investing Apps


Methodology


What Is an Investment App?


What Should You Look For When Choosing an Investment App?


How To Use an Investing App


Investments That You Can Trade Through an App


How Much Should You Invest?


Things To Know When Investing With an Investment App


Investment App FAQs


Next Up In Investing








Featured Partner Offers1UpholdFees (Maker/Taker) 0.95%/1.25%Cryptocurrencies Available for Trade 250+1UpholdLearn More On Uphold's WebsiteTerms Apply. Cryptoassets are highly volatile. Your capital is at risk.2RobinhoodOffer* Earn up to 3% extra on annual contributions with Robinhood Gold Get 1% extra without Robinhood Gold, every year.Account Minimum $0Trading Commissions All trades are commission-free2RobinhoodLearn More On Robinhood's Website 


Best Investment Apps of September 2024 
Forbes Advisor compiled this list of best investment apps based on their excellence in various areas, including usability, low fees and the availability of educational materials.

Binance.US – Best Investment App for Cryptocurrency
Betterment – Best Robo-Advisor Investment App
TDAmeritrade’s thinkorswim – Best Investment App for Experienced Investors
Fidelity Mobile – Best Investment App for Average Investors
E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley – Best Investment App for Beginners



 









Best Investment App for Cryptocurrency
Binance.US




4.9





Our ratings take into account a product's cost, features, ease of use, customer service and other category-specific attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.



Account minimum 

$1




Available on 

Apple iOS and Android








Learn More 
Read Our Full Review 







$1






Apple iOS and Android








Why We Picked It

Crypto enthusiasts will notice that none of our other picks directly allow for trading digital currencies. Investors who want exposure to what some have called “digital gold” should consider our top choice for best investment app for cryptocurrency, Binance.US.
Binance.US offers the best mix of low fees, wide selection and crypto transfer flexibility among cryptocurrency investment apps.

Pros & Cons




Industry-low trading costs
More than 50 cryptocurrencies available
Strong user reviews and cybersecurity rating




Binance, its international parent company not available in the United States, has more cryptocurrency options
Residents of some states, including Texas and New York, cannot use Binance.US
Not enough educational material for new investors




Details 

Certain beginner-friendly investment apps, like Robinhood and Webull, allow you to easily buy crypto along with other more mainstream investments, like stocks and exchange traded funds, or ETFs. But just because you can doesn’t mean you should.
Platforms like Robinhood and Webull offer a relatively limited range of cryptos. Perhaps more importantly, they don’t let you move your cryptos off of their apps.
Some crypto investors like to transfer their coins from the apps where they buy them into so-called cold crypto wallets that are disconnected from the internet to protect their investments from hackers. What’s more, Robinhood and Webull’s “free” trades aren’t really free. Instead, they have fees baked into the prices at which you buy and sell your cryptocurrencies.
That’s why we recommend a pure crypto app, like Binance.US, even for those new to crypto. Binance.US provides access to countless more cryptocurrencies, from mainstays like bitcoin and Ethereum to dozens of lesser-known altcoins. Beginners and advanced traders alike can benefit from the industry-low fees and instant buy on more advanced trading platforms like Binance.US.
One caveat: Binance.US accounts are not available to residents of Alaska, American Samoa, Hawaii, Maine, New York, Northern Mariana Islands, Texas, U.S. Virgin Islands and Vermont.


















Best Robo-Advisor Investment App
Betterment




4.8





Our ratings take into account a product's cost, features, ease of use, customer service and other category-specific attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.



Account minimum 

$0




Available on 

Apple IOS and Android








Learn More 
Read Our Full Review 







$0






Apple IOS and Android








Why We Picked It

Many top online brokerages offer robo-advisor services. But if you’re looking for a dedicated robo-advisor investment app that can manage a low-cost diversified portfolio of ETFs, you’d be best served by Betterment. It is one of the original robos. And it is the No. 1 pick in our ranking of the best robo-advisors for everyday investors.
Betterment has no account minimum. That makes it easy to get started. And Betterment offers a strong platform that can help you automate your investments in a way that best suits your long-term goals and risk tolerance. Just remember that Betterment hosts only trading in ETFs, not individual securities like stocks and bonds.

Pros & Cons




Relatively low annual advisory fee
Ability to construct multiple goal-based portfolios
Tax-loss harvesting available




Emergency fund portfolio may contain too many equities for conservative investors




Details 

Here’s how Betterment’s fees work: If your total Betterment balance is below $20,000 and you do not have a recurring deposit of $250 or more per month, you have to pay Betterment $4 per month. That would be $48 a year.
If your balance is higher than $20,000 or you make combined recurring deposits of $250 more each month, you’ll pay 0.25% per year. Annually, that’s $25 per $10,000 that you invest.
Other leading robos, like SoFi Invest, Acorns, Ellevest and Schwab Intelligent Portfolios, charge monthly subscription fees of $0 up to $30 a year. Schwab also charges a one-time planning fee of $300.
Alternatively, some robo-advisors charge a percentage of the assets you have in your account, with yearly rates up to 0.89% by Empower. So, Betterment’s fees effectively penalize small balances. But once your balance exceeds their trigger points, fees tumble.
Instead of starting with a rival platform that seems easier or cheaper, you’d probably be better off starting with Betterment’s app to take advantage of its leading platform and low-fee access to all investment account and goal types.

*Disclosure 

*Paid non-client of Betterment. Views may not be representative, see more reviews at the App Store and Google Play Store. Learn moreabout this relationship.
Ratings as of 09/01/21 for services offered in 2021.
¹Betterment is not a licensed tax advisor. Tax Loss Harvesting+ (TLH+) is not suitable for all investors. Read more at https://www.betterment.com/legal/tax-loss-harvestingand consider your personal circumstances before deciding whether to utilize Betterment’s TLH+ feature. Investing involves risk. Performance not guaranteed.


















Best Investment App for Experienced Investors
TD Ameritrade’s thinkorswim




4.4





Our ratings take into account a product's cost, features, ease of use, customer service and other category-specific attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.



Account minimum 

$0




Available on 

Apple iOS and Android














$0






Apple iOS and Android








Why We Picked It

Note: TD Ameritrade’s thinkorswim app has been incorporated into parent company Charles Schwab’s platform.
Many advanced and do-it-yourself traders were—and still are—big fans of TD Ameritrade’s app in large part because of its thinkorswim trading platform. Most traders find its interface easy to use. Users hail its real-time market data, charts and quick trade execution.
Those traits are why thinkorswim is our top choice for Best Online Broker Mobile App. Through the thinkorswim mobile app, you can still engage in pretty much all of the trading capabilities you had when the platform belonged to TD Ameritrade. Plus, eligible customers gain entry to more sophisticated investments like forex.

Pros & Cons




Ability to trade OTC, options, futures and forex
Margin trading available




No access to cryptocurrencies




Details 

The thinkorswim platform is still available to customers even after TD Ameritrade’s takeover by Charles Schwab. Customers still have access to the basics—for example, stock, options and futures trading—as well as advanced charting functions, margin trading and the ability to buy and sell securities on the over-the-counter, or OTC, market. Traders can monitor market-breaking news easily in-app and benefit from a wealth of educational resources.
What’s more, you can access the settings you enable on thinkorswim’s powerful desktop platform in-app, meaning your chart drawings and market scans are always with you. thinkorswim also offers chatrooms and paper trading for you to discuss and try out your trading ideas.
Are you a fan of fractional share trading? New parent company Schwab has opened the door to trading partial shares worth at least $5, so long as the companies are in the S&P 500 Index. Fractional shares are not directly available on thinkorswim, but thinkorswim users can access them through Schwab.com and Schwab Mobile. And thinkorswim customers are allowed to access either of those Schwab platforms without needing to create an additional account on those platforms.
Customers of thinkorswim can also access cryptocurrency in various ways, including through spot bitcoin ETFs and ETF-like trusts that the SEC has approved. Spot bitcoin ETFs allow for the institutional trading of bitcoin at its spot, or current, price.
Also fair game for thinkorswim customers: ETFs that invest in cryptocurrency futures and in the stock of companies whose businesses are related to crypto, such as crypto-mining companies and exchanges. And once they are approved by Schwab to trade futures directly, thinkorswim customers can access their futures account to trade crypto futures via their thinkorswim app.


















Best Investment App for Average Investors
Fidelity Mobile




4.3





Our ratings take into account a product's cost, features, ease of use, customer service and other category-specific attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.



Account minimum 

$0




Available on 

Apple IOS, Android and Amazon














$0






Apple IOS, Android and Amazon








Why We Picked It

The Fidelity app combines low costs and clean graphics with easy buying and selling of stocks.
One reflection of those traits is that Fidelity requires no account opening minimum for U.S. stock and ETF trades. Also, Fidelity levies no account fees, and your orders aren’t sold to high-frequency trading shops. That practice, called selling order flow, is thought by some to result in customers getting worse prices when they buy or sell investments.
Further, Fidelity permits fractional share investing for as little as $1, allowing you to buy less than one share of a particular security.

Pros & Cons




Low costs
Strong educational material
Access to wide range of account types and investments




No cryptocurrency trading
No market news function




Details 

The Fidelity mobile app is easy to navigate. It’s also chock-full of useful educational materials that will help fledgling Warren Buffetts learn to invest.
One perk is the ability to coordinate with Fidelity Go, the Boston-based investment firm’s robo-advisor service. As with most leading robos, you’ll be presented with a suite of premade portfolios that aim to match your risk tolerance and are stuffed with low-cost funds.
Generally, you can use the Fidelity mobile app to do anything you would online with a desktop or laptop computer. You can even trade bitcoin and Ethereum through your mobile app. But first you must open a Fidelity Crypto account because you cannot trade cryptocurrencies through your regular brokerage account.
What you can trade via your regular brokerage account with the mobile app are securities such as ETFs that hold cryptocurrencies or crypto futures contracts or companies engaged in crypto-related activities. The last category includes businesses like crypto exchanges and crypto mining companies.
Somewhat ironically, you cannot trade spot bitcoin ETFs like Fidelity’s own Wise Origin Bitcoin Fund (FBTC) through Fidelity Crypto, even with the Fidelity mobile app. That’s because the ETF holds cryptocurrency but is not itself a cryptocurrency. Instead, you can trade it through the regular brokerage on your mobile app if you wish.
You don’t need to commit to short-term buying and selling either. Fidelity offers a variety of account types outside of normal taxable investment accounts, like you find at Robinhood. Fidelity retirement and 529 accounts allow you to invest for your and your children’s futures.
Bolstering the appeal of the Fidelity mobile app are the full capabilities of its parent, investing behemoth Fidelity—which Forbes Advisor selects as the best online broker for everyday investors. Traders desiring more esoteric options, such as commodities—except for certain precious metals—will be disappointed, as they are not offered directly for trading.


















Best Investment App For Beginners
E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley




3.6





Our ratings take into account a product's cost, features, ease of use, customer service and other category-specific attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.



Account minimum 

$0




Available on 

Apple iOS and Android








Learn More 
Via E*TRADE's Website 







$0






Apple iOS and Android








Why We Picked It

While Fidelity stands out as a solid choice for the everyday investor, beginners in particular who are interested in trading should look to E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley. The original online-first brokerage boasts an average Apple App Store rating of 4.6 (with 151,000 reviews). And it nabbed the top spot in the ease of use category of our ranking of Best Online Brokerages for Beginners, in no small part because of its investment app.
E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley has no trading minimums or commissions for online U.S.-listed stock, ETF, mutual fund and options trades. It also offers a surfeit of investing information, from basic definitions of common terms like diversification to live-streaming of Bloomberg TV. You can also sign up for a wide range of account types, including IRAs and custodial accounts for children, in addition to more typical taxable accounts.

Pros & Cons




Low costs and fees
Excellent news and educational resources




No cryptocurrency trading
No 529 accounts




Details 

One drawback to the E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley app is that you can’t open a 529 plan account to save for children’s college educations.
Another drawback is the absence of most fractional share trading. You’re only allowed to sell fractional shares obtained through dividend reinvestment plans. That can make it harder for investors with less cash to buy the security they want. Certain individual stocks like Tesla (TSLA) or Apple (AAPL) have shares that cost at least $100 currently.
You can also access a robo-like service through E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley’s Prebuilt Portfolios, though you’ll need $500 to get started with mutual funds and $2,500 to open an account with exchange-traded funds.
A third limitation is that you can’t directly trade commodities or cryptocurrency. Still, those restrictions can reduce risk for trading newcomers, since those assets tend to be volatile. And you can trade certain crypto-related securities, including futures and ETFs, through the E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley app.










Summary: Best Investing Apps 
















CompanyCompany - LogoForbes Advisor RatingForbes Advisor RatingBest ForAccount minimumLearn More CTA textLearn more CTA below textLEARN MORE




Binance.US4.9

Best Investment App for Cryptocurrency$1Learn MoreRead Our Full ReviewLearn More
Read Our Full Review

Betterment4.8

Best Robo-Advisor Investment App$0 Learn MoreRead Our Full ReviewLearn More
Read Our Full Review

TD Ameritrade’s thinkorswim4.4

Best Investment App for Experienced Investors$0View MoreView More


Fidelity Mobile4.3

Best Investment App for Average Investors$0View MoreView More


E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley3.6

Best Investment App For Beginners$0Learn MoreVia E*TRADE's WebsiteLearn More
Via E*TRADE's Website





 
Methodology 
To determine the best investment apps, Forbes Advisor tracked more than 20 leading platforms, assessing hundreds of data points spanning five main categories: usability, fees, investment profile, trading ability and educational materials.
Forbes Advisor weighted each of these categories in accordance with their importance to various types of investors to compute the best app for each specific type of investor.
To learn more about our rating and review methodology and editorial process, check out our guide on how Forbes Advisor rates investing products.


 
What Is an Investment App? 
An investment app is a service for mobile devices that allows users to invest and manage their money in various financial markets, including stocks, bonds, mutual funds and cryptocurrencies. These apps offer users an easy and convenient way to manage their investments, track their portfolio performance and make informed investment decisions.
Investment apps typically offer a range of features, including real-time stock quotes, news and analysis, investment research tools, customizable portfolios and trading capabilities. Some apps also offer automated investing features, such as robo-advisor services, that use algorithms to create and manage investment portfolios based on the user’s risk tolerance and investment goals.
Investment apps can be a useful tool for both experienced and novice investors, offering easy access to the financial markets and a range of investment options. However, users should be aware of the potential risks and fees associated with investing through these apps and should carefully evaluate the app’s features, fees and security measures before investing.
Featured Partner Offer1eToroWelcome Offer Join eToro and get $10 of free Crypto! (US Only)Fees (Maker/Taker) 1%/1%Cryptocurrencies Available for Trade 20+1eToroLearn More Via eToro's Website 

 
What Should You Look For When Choosing an Investment App? 
If you’re looking for the best investment app, you may be new to the world of investing. That means you’ll want an easy-to-use platform with generous educational resources.
But because investing is all about the long game—you could be investing for 40 years or more if you’re saving for retirement—you also want an app that you can grow with. That’s why even as a beginner, you should seek out a platform that offers robust research tools, a wide range of account types and low fees so you don’t feel like you have to switch providers when you’ve become a more advanced user.

Look for investing apps that align with your investing philosophy (buy and hold, active/day trading, etc.) and have low or no fees. Also consider the investment options and account types supported to ensure the platform can support your needs for years to come.
– Ryan Nelson, CPA, CFP, wealth advisor at RLN Wealth

And while ultimately you want a good app experience, you also inevitably sign up for so much more when you open an account with an investment app. That’s why it’s important to consider the broader company powering the investment app you download.
You’ll notice our top choices in this listing also rank highly in other brokerage, robo-advisor and crypto exchange listings we’ve conducted. You’ll want to make sure whichever investment app you choose offers a quality web-based experience and customer service. Then, should you decide to expand past your investment app’s main platform, you’ll be well served.






 
How To Use an Investing App 
Using an investment app can be a great way to manage your investments and keep track of your portfolio. Here are some general steps for how to use an investment app:

Choose an investment app. There are many investment apps available in the market, so choose the one that suits your investment style and needs.
Sign up. Once you have selected an investment app, download it from the app store and sign up. You may need to provide personal information such as your name, address, social security number and bank information.
Set up your account. After signing up, you’ll need to set up your account, including funding it with money. You can link your bank account, debit card or credit card to the investment app and transfer money to your investment account.
Explore investment options. Once your account is set up and funded, you can start exploring the investment options available on the app. This may include stocks, bonds, ETFs, mutual funds and more.
Build your portfolio. Use the investment app to build your portfolio by selecting investments that align with your investment goals, risk tolerance and investment horizon.
Monitor your portfolio. It’s important to keep an eye on your portfolio and make adjustments as needed. Stick to your long-term investment plan, especially amid market volatility. Use the app’s tools to monitor your investments and track their performance.
Make trades. You can use the investment app to buy and sell investments as needed. Be aware of any fees associated with trades and make sure you understand the tax implications of selling investments.
Stay up-to-date. Stay informed about market news and changes in the investment landscape through the app’s newsfeed or other resources.

Remember, investing always involves some degree of risk. It’s essential to understand the risks associated with different investments. Consult with a financial advisor if you have any questions or concerns.


 
Investments That You Can Trade Through an App 
Most investments are accessible through mobile apps, but the selection can vary widely among brokers.
Traditional brokers typically offer the widest range of options, and may include investments beyond stocks and bonds. Those include:

Fractional shares
Commodities
Options
Futures
Foreign currencies

There are even apps that focus on alternatives, but bear in mind that most alternatives are limited to investors who meet specific eligibility requirements.
A few apps offer cryptocurrency, but in our view cryptocurrency is best sourced through a reputable exchange.


 
How Much Should You Invest? 
The question of how much to invest is highly personal, based on each investor’s unique financial circumstances, objectives and time horizon. Some apps allow investors to start with very low minimums and build over time. Many financial experts suggest that 15% to 20% of after-tax income should go to saving, investing and debt repayment.

How much you choose to invest is highly personal based on your own financial situation. Experts recommend you invest 10% to 20% of your income, but getting started with whatever you can afford today will allow you to build the habits required to get there.
– Dave Fortin, CFA, portfolio manager and COO of FutureMoney

Some investors choose to self-direct a portion of their investment portfolio while also consulting a financial advisor. However, all of your saving and investing decisions are informed by your unique financial picture. Seeking professional advice is an excellent way to develop a holistic financial plan. It can also become increasingly necessary if you have significant assets.


 
Things To Know When Investing With an Investment App 
When you decide to invest through an app, you should evaluate several aspects of the app to make sure it suits your needs.

Product selection. Make sure that it offers all the products and services necessary to support your investment objectives.
Customer service. Prompt and attentive customer service is critical for investors of any experience level.
Educational materials and other features. Offerings like research, model portfolios, educational materials, blogs and chat groups can enhance your investment experience and help you make informed decisions.
Fees. Understanding the app’s fee structure is also critical. You should know what you’ll be paying for to avoid surprises. Before you choose an app, you should understand how much you’ll be trading and how much you want to invest. Will you be charged per trade? Is the fee structure asset-based? The optimal fee structure depends on how you intend to invest.



 
		Investment App FAQs	












What is an investment app?


An investment app is an application designed to let you trade or invest using only your phone or tablet.













How much money do I need to open an investment app?


Nearly all investment apps have no minimum balance requirements. That lets you get started with just a few dollars. Keep an eye out for any requirements specific to apps you’re interested in, though, because some may require higher opening balances or require you to buy whole shares of stocks or funds.













How do I open an account with an investment app?


You can generally open an investment account with an investment app simply by downloading the program from your app store of choice. Each platform has its own requirements. Generally, you should be prepared to provide key personal identification and strategic information.
 
This enables the app to provide you with an account that you, the app and, yes, tax authorities can link exclusively and reliably to you.
 
Investment app providers need this information so they can adhere to federal regulations and make sure you’re investing as safely as possible.













Why use an investment app?


Using an investment app is a great way for beginner investors to start learning how to invest. The most important factor for beginners is to get started putting money to work in the market right away. Investment apps get the job done quickly.













Are investing apps safe?


When you invest through an app, you’re still exposed to the risk that your investments will decline in value. Your account is very unlikely to be insured against such market action.
 
Most brokerage accounts are protected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, or SIPC. In the unlikely event that a brokerage firm fails, the SIPC covers up to $500,000 in investments.













Can you trade stocks using an investment app?


That question made you blink, right? Maybe your first reaction was, well, of course you can trade stocks using an investment app. But of course, some apps don’t let you trade stocks at all.
 
For example:
 



Brokerage apps such as Fidelity, Charles Schwab and Interactive Brokers’ allow you to buy stocks, among other securities.
Apps run by robo-advisor Betterment let you invest only in ETFs, not individual stocks or bonds.
Wealthbase lets customers engage in stock and crypto trading contests for educational and entertainment purposes.
Invstr helps you learn how to invest as well as invest for real in stocks and other securities.






  
Next Up In Investing 

When Should You Choose Taxable Investment Accounts?
How To Rebalance Your Investment Portfolio
How To Classify And Diversify Your Investment Portfolio
Small Fees Have A Big Impact On Your Investments
The Best Safe Investments For Your Money
Best Investing Apps For Portfolio Management



 


        Information provided on Forbes Advisor is for educational purposes only. Your financial situation is unique and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer financial advice, advisory or brokerage services, nor do we recommend or advise individuals or to buy or sell particular stocks or securities. Performance information may have changed since the time of publication. Past performance is not indicative of future results.  Forbes Advisor adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners.            













Rebecca Baldridge

Investing Writer





                Rebecca Baldridge, CFA, is an investment professional and financial writer with over 20 years' experience in the financial services industry. In addition to a decade in banking and brokerage in Moscow, she has worked for Franklin Templeton Asset Management, The Bank of New York, JPMorgan Asset Management and Merrill Lynch Asset Management. She is a founding partner in Quartet Communications, a financial communications and content creation firm.            



 

 







Was this article helpful?


Share your feedback

















Send feedback to the editorial team




Rate this Article



 ★
 ★
 ★
 ★
 ★

 Please rate the article

Email










Please enter valid email address
Comments

We'd love to hear from you, please enter your comments.
Invalid email address
Submit

            

                This form is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google
                Privacy Policy and
                Terms of Service apply.
            











Thank You for your feedback!







Something went wrong. Please try again later.


















© 2024 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.




































AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Terms and Conditions
About Us
Contact Us
Careers
Newsroom
Forbes Quote of the Day
Advertise





 












 
    The Forbes Advisor editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Advisor site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Advisor. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. Here is a list of our partners who offer products that we have affiliate links for.
 

lorem
 

Are you sure you want to rest your choices?

cancel
ok

 




                              YOUR CHOICES REGARDING COOKIES ON THIS SITE                             Please choose whether this site may use cookies or related technologies such as web beacons, pixel tags, and Flash objects ("Cookies") as described below. You can learn more about how this site uses cookies and related technologies by reading our privacy policy linked to below. Your choices on this site will be applied globally. This means that your settings will be available on other sites that set your choices globally. You can change your mind and revisit your preferences at any time by accessing the "Cookie on Forbes" button on the left side of this site.  While we need to use required cookies to make our site work, we won't set optional cookies unless you enable them.                             WE AND OUR PARTNERS (79)  We and  our partners: (79) process personal data such as IP Address, Unique ID, browsing data for:  Store and/or access information on a device | Personalised advertising, advertising measurement, and audience research | Personalised content and content measurement | Develop and improve services | Use precise geolocation data | Actively scan device characteristics for identification. Some partners do not ask for your consent to process your data, instead, they rely on their legitimate business interest. View our list of partners to see the purposes they believe they have a legitimate interest for and how you can object to it.       Accept AllDecline All Choose Cookies    Privacy Statement  Powered by:     Cookies on Forbes 




























 

 


 

   